xlviii A M PH I ΤΕ V O.

Hiatus is also allowed in the diaeresis of anapaestic
verses, when they have one 3 in the diaeresis of cretio
tetrameters 3 and, probably, of bacchiao tetrameters
also. In this position also syllaba anceps is freely
admitted, i.e. a short syllable may end the first
half, being >treated as long, as though at the end of
a verse,

3. W'hether hiatus is allowed in the diaeresis of
trochaic septenarii is a disputed point. W. Christ
and A. Spengel and Bitschl in his Prologue to the
Trinummus argued that it was permissible: C. F. W.
Mueller, and lately Leo, deny it. Goetz, Loewe, and
Schoell usually correct it.

I have no doubt whatever that hiatus was sparingly
permitted at the diaeresis of trochaio septenarii,
especially where there was a natural pause, for the
following reasons. First, the MSS. exhibit an enor-
mous number of instances of hiatus here. Grant
that a large number of these are easily curable, and
should be enred, it is likely that the transcribers
were encouraged to permit· hiatus to an enormous
extent here by the fact that they found many un-
doubted instanoes of it existing. Secondly, the
analogy of the nndoubted permission of hiatus in
the longer iambio metres is a strong argument for the
permission of hiatus in trochaic metros. This would
be no argument if hiatus was the invariable rule in
iambic metres. But as it sometimes takes place in

